Weekly Intern Sync
Google Meet Meeting - April 19
---

1:30 - Filip Cedermark
  Good morning.

2:02 - sanjeev kumar
  Hello. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Sanjay.

2:11 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  Good morning.

2:14 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Good morning.

2:18 - Neha Doda
  How you guys have been doing?

2:20 - sanjeev kumar
  Good, Sanjay. I think in Sweden now, the spring cleaning has started, right? So did you guys participate in it or still yet to be scheduled for your areas?

2:42 - Suhash Raja
  I think it got completed in my area, but I didn't participate, actually.

2:50 - sanjeev kumar
  Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So this, this, so that was the reason, like, I moved Saturdays. We started like quite early and then I also had to like clean my area.  That's why I thought like, let me move the meeting. Okay. So yeah, that was, that's how my Saturday went.  Let's wait for a couple of more minutes. Then I think it's nine three. We can get going. Let me share my screen.  Okay. Let's go to the, go to the page. Let's see what is happening here. Yeah. Okay. So this is the agenda for today.  So we will again, start with the weekly check-in, what did you work on blockers wins? Uh, then, uh, one topic that I would like to, I had a sync with the Raj in between, and there was one thing that he raised, uh, that I thought like we should discuss, uh, now that it will be about the tech platforms that we are using.  Also, please check like if this table is correct. Right. And if there are any, any changes, do let me know.  Uh, this is about the tech platforms that we are using for practicing, uh, right now, there's not much of a diversity here.  Uh, uh, so yeah, there are a couple of platforms which are missing. We will talk about that, how to cover, how to have a better coverage there, Uh, then yeah, we'll see if Deepika is ready for, for a demo, but we have kept it optional whenever she's ready, she can do it.  would be and then Uh, And then some questions that we have, which are carried over from last time, will discuss that and then so today, I have decided to be that this will be the last session for the common for the for the for the as a common session for the whole group.  And from now on next week onwards, we will try to split them into like specialized groups, right? For DE and DevOps, I will, I will be there, I will handle both of them.  For ML, we will let you know, I think we'll have to just find the time of the other mentor.  And for data analysis, let me see if we have one of the mentors available. Otherwise, I can also help you with the data analysis part.  Right. But yeah, let's see. So today, we will finish with this architecture. And we will spend most of our time here because this is where, in my mind, this is very important to understand from any customer, right?  So a customer will, might only interview on this part, right? But they have a whole platform, right? Sources and what, blah, blah, blah.  We'll talk about these, right? So it's very important for all of you to understand what is a, what usually will be there in customer's tech stack, right?  Okay, so that's what. And then from, based on mid-week sync, we have a couple of things that AI told me, like, I should discuss.  So I have added them here, right? We'll validate them. Okay. If this makes sense, if you have any feedback, please feel free to let me know.  But let's start with, with point one. I have on my top, maybe, Suhas, if you would like to start.

6:59 - Suhash Raja
  Okay. Thank Thank server Yes, so I tried to license in Azure, like to connect the Databricks to read from the cloud storage, ADLS.  So I got to learn a few new things like the access connector for Databricks, which is a service that needs to be created.  Yes. So when I create that service in Azure, like it gets automatically be visible in the Databricks workspace. So using, and then like, which is a, which is a managed identity on Centarity.  So then I provided access to the storage container, block container within ADLS storage to that managed identity. And, and then like, I configured the same in the.  So. So. So. So. you. from the Databricks in for this particular path in the ADLS. So then when I write code in the workspace, it automatically reads that the data from the ADLS.  Yeah. And one more thing I learned from this is that like when new Databricks workspace is created, it automatically creates another one default access connector, which is being used for metadata writing by Databricks.  I tried to use that for initial read, but it didn't allow me to use it because it is specifically for the Databricks usage.

8:44 - sanjeev kumar
  So I think that one is a unity catalog access connected. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So unity catalog is the, is the catalog that, that manages all the metadata and Databricks.  So you need one for that, that is automatically connected because Then everything is handled and governed by UnityCatalog. And the other access connector is probably for accessing the data.  Yes, that I manually created.

9:10 - Suhash Raja
  I didn't know that this logic which you told me now. So I was trying to use the default one, then it didn't allow, it is for this purpose, for the UnityCatalog's purpose.  Then I again can create a new access connector, then net allowed.

9:32 - sanjeev kumar
  And just for information. So if you want, like, if you are exploring this, this is like really great Suhash, right?  You get to explore, you get to know the internals, how Databricks is set up and whatnot. This is great, right?  Please keep doing that. But just to let you know, if you want to like quick startup in Databricks, you have something called volumes.  I am assuming that you uploaded some data in Azure ADLS and you want that to be read in Databricks, right?  This is your aim, correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

9:59 - Suhash Raja
  Yeah. Like I used volumes priorly, like for like a normal read stream and this thing, like, like this was something that was hitting my mind.  Like how does it like, yeah, it's great to explore, please keep doing it.
  ACTION ITEM: Try connecting Databricks CE to Azure ADLS; report back next session - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=611.9999

10:17 - sanjeev kumar
  But yeah, it's good that you know about volume. So yeah, all good.

10:22 - Suhash Raja
  I have one question, like, is it possible, like, I could see the connections and everything in the trial version of the data, like the free community edition of Databricks as well.  So if, like, is it possible for me to connect from trial version of like the free version of Databricks into an Azure cloud ADLS?  I don't see a reason why it would not.

10:49 - sanjeev kumar
  Okay. Okay. Maybe I should give a try.

10:53 - Suhash Raja
  Maybe then. Okay. Okay. Yeah.

10:55 - sanjeev kumar
  If you still don't see, then we can discuss it next time. Yeah, sure. I think it should be possible.  Okay. Thank you. Anything else, Suhash, before you move on? I'm good. Thank you. Okay, great. Thanks a lot, Suhash.  Do we have Filip in the call? Yes. Hello.

11:17 - Filip Cedermark
  Good morning. Hi, Filip. Would you like to go ahead?

11:23 - sanjeev kumar
  Yeah, sure.

11:25 - Filip Cedermark
  I mentioned this really briefly to the few people who were on their Wednesday checkup. But this week has been really busy for me outside of this internship.  There's a bunch of family stuff going on. So I haven't been able to focus as much as I wanted.  So I unfortunately do feel like I am falling a bit behind. But it's going to be better this coming weeks.  Yeah. Okay. Not at all. Thank you.

11:58 - sanjeev kumar
  So I've...

12:00 - Filip Cedermark
  So I sat down and I've tried to look at the whole CDC thing. I've had to go back and redo a bunch of stuff a lot of times because I realized it's either just wrong or I think it's done and then I remember oh yeah it needs to be ready for CDC and it's not so I had to go back and do some other things and I switched over to Faker now as well.  So I have something that's I have like a I generate like customer events now with some so I have like a customer ID, name, email, phone, city, purchase amount, signup date and the plan is to use this to generate like initial data and then have another function that can either like add.  I'm some of the columns to generate a new fake email, for example, if they change to, if they choose to update their email, the new city, things like that.
  ACTION ITEM: Share Faker data-generation code w/ group - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=789.9999  I'm able to work on the CDC part. So I'm going to have to be looking into it more this week instead.

13:20 - sanjeev kumar
  No, it makes sense. And like, maybe you can help others also to set up this faker library, or maybe just shared code, how it is generating the data, The reason why we will start with very small data, but I also, for example, if I have to simulate some customer problem on large scale data, say, I don't know, 100 GB, 200 GB, find a GB of data.  Yeah, I do use faker library. Actually, there is this DBS data lab library that actually uses Spark to paralyze it.  But yeah, I don't want to go into too much detail, but if you later on, we need to move on to actually testing with larger amount.  of data and Faker will help you. So I think Filip, you have already done the setup. Keep working. When all of us reach at that stage, then maybe you can share your code to others so that they can also play around and create large amount of data.  Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. Thanks, Filip. Deepika. Thank you, Sanjeev.

14:21 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  So this week I have prepared for the demo of CACD using GitHub Actions. Like if time permits, like we can plan it today also if it is okay for you.  Then with respect to data bricks, I tried to understand about that incremental injection and item potential with last week, but like I didn't try the hands-on part 8.  But I worked on that silver layer, Sanjeev, like how to do the data cleaning, like removing the nulls, duplicates, renaming the column, which I can show it up as well.  Okay. Great. Great. So you are focusing on this part at the moment. And I plan to prepare Windows function, but this week I was not able to complete it.  So I will start next week and I will try to understand about the Parquet and Delta for what it is being used and what is the difference between them and So that, you know, also I try to understand.  Awesome.

15:34 - sanjeev kumar
  Because we covered these in previous sessions and these are like, and also if I'm not wrong, Filip, did you miss last time?  Right? I think Filip, you missed it. Okay. I did. Yes. I did. I read up on the meeting transcript.

15:51 - Filip Cedermark
  So I am like, I should be on track in that respect.

15:57 - sanjeev kumar
  Yeah. Okay. Great. Then, uh, because you We discussed some topics which are like really, really essential, right? So these are the main topics that we are discussing that everyone should know.  If you miss a session, you all have access to this. I make sure that I make the notes using AI from the transcripts, like shortened one, and I also skim through it once.  There are chances like I miss some, there could be some AI slog, but I make sure that I go through them, and we try to capture the important parts that we discussed, right?  So just come back to this one, parka, deep dive, what would you discuss, and prep yourself, right? Just bring yourself up to speed.  Great. And so why I come to this one? Because, yeah, Deepika, so, yeah, what you mentioned, the parka and the other stuff, right?  Like they are like important. It's always possible that some of you will be, already have more experience, and they have, you have more time.  Maybe you got more time that week, so you were able to prep on that. But even for some reason, you fall back.  Go back and read, read upon them because they are basics, right? You, as an engineer or DevOps engineer, I think, or ML engineer, right?  You are supposed to know these basic stuff, right? There is a good introduction to that.
  ACTION ITEM: Implement DQ checks in Silver layer - 

17:13 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Great.

17:15 - sanjeev kumar
  Anything else, Deepika, before you move on? This is what I covered this week, Sanjeev. Okay, great, great.

17:21 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  And one more thing, Deepika.

17:23 - sanjeev kumar
  So, I, I hope when you, you're working on Silver at the moment, you are looking at this, right? Data quality.

17:31 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Like, I'm still trying to, still like, I'm just doing the small, small operations on this, Sanjeev, like data trimming, normalization, and duplicating data.  Still like, I didn't go to any advanced data.

17:48 - sanjeev kumar
  But, consider your silver done, don't consider your silver done without having all these, at least thought about all these points, right?

17:57 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  when do this function, I will try this week, Sanjeev. Once you touch all these topics, then I would say the basic silver would be done, right?  sure.

18:07 - sanjeev kumar
  Next, Neha, I think Neha, were absent a couple of questions.

18:15 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, hi Sundeep. Yeah, actually, that's what I wanted to discuss because I haven't attended many of the meetings. But yeah, last Wednesday, this midweek sync I attended and I took the help of Suhash and Filip and they just guided me that what's happening in the group.  And then they just told like I can start with the sequel because I just checked the roadmap and then I just need to start it yet.  So yeah, but I would like to like ask you like about like what should I start with? Is it sequel or because I can see here?  It says like my key tools and tech are power BI certification, right?

19:08 - sanjeev kumar
  So you already have this certification. So I used BI to scan our transcript and build this one. So it said that you have the certification already.  Oh, yeah. Yeah, I already have.
  ACTION ITEM: Study Data Analytics use case week-by-week - 

19:18 - Neha Doda
  okay. This is something that's what I want to know. So here, this is just a note of what you guys have told us.

19:28 - sanjeev kumar
  Okay. So whenever you get time, feel free. It's completely fine. Get back to us. Ask the same questions again.  No problem at all. If you want some guidance, we build this data analytics use case week by week. You can actually start taking a look at them, right?  This is quite detailed. This will give you a good starting point. Okay. Yeah.

19:55 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, this is what we discussed in the last meeting with Suhash. I think he should.

20:02 - sanjeev kumar
  No problem, yeah. Then take your time, Neha. Okay, then we can go to Asindu. Do we have Asindu on the call?

20:16 - Suhash Raja
  No. Not a problem.

20:23 - sanjeev kumar
  Let's move to Nikolaos if we have him on the call. Yeah, we have Nikolaos. Hey. Hey, good morning.

20:34 - Nikolaos Biniaris
  So what I have changed in my pipelines is that I have added a changed data capture, and I have tried to make them independent from bronze all the way to gold.  I have sent in my forked GitHub repository, I have sent to the main since Yeah, I saw that.

21:04 - sanjeev kumar
  So I have, and yeah, so people who have, who missed it, right? So we are trying to follow the, the same pattern that we, that any customer would use, right?  So we are trying to follow the flow pattern and Deepika and Nicholas has raised a pull request, which I have actually merged, right?  So when you do some work, make sure you create a pull request to this repo. I will review it and merge it.  This will also give you a good idea how exactly the CICD flow and Git flow works, right? So, yes, I, I saw that.

21:38 - Nikolaos Biniaris
  have merged it. That's right. Let's go to the... Is it right? To action. Then I used it in DE because I, it's, yeah.  Yes. There. This one... With my name. This is Deepika. Yes. The script, the script has all the, yeah, there.  Awesome. then... I have the cdc one and the previous one which is the overwrite, but right now I'm using only the cdc ones in Databricks.  How are you creating the cdc?

22:12 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  I am using a merge absurd in bronze and I am comparing the count of the primary keys and then if they're different I'm doing a merge absurd and then when I'm heading to silver layer I am using a watermark so everything that is a date newer than the previous one it's getting inserted or updated in my silver tables otherwise just skips to the gold and the same for gold layer it takes for new data and then it builds again the dimensions and the facts.

22:49 - Nikolaos Biniaris
  I can show it if you want with my screen otherwise. Not now, Niklas, not now. We will come to that.

22:58 - sanjeev kumar
  But yes, I do have Based on what you explained, I can guess what kind of problems would be there, but let's spend time on that once we had a little bit.  But it's great work. Thanks a lot for merging it here.

23:19 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  Let's move on to, yeah, and just for information, if have missed a couple of questions.

23:23 - sanjeev kumar
  Action is clear to communicate. For example, Deepika has committed her code here in Gothenburg Weather, where she will try to show the CICD part, and Nikolaos has done what her job is doing.  is taking it here to also act as, I don't know, create your own feature branch and work on this, So, a good bit to learn this part too.  So, for the data science, you can do it here. For data analysis, you will do it here. For DE and DevOps, we have just one folder.
  ACTION ITEM: Create PR for first use case code; then present to group - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=1437.9999  Okay, now let's... Let's go back to the internship session, we have Elliot, aren't Yeah, you? Yeah.

24:08 - Elliot Eriksson
  So, I finished my first use case, and I have it all done on the database, I just need to look up how to connect it to the GitHub pipeline, and just do a pull request on that.  And then I've been looking at some, like, Stanford machine learning courses, like, or just, like, the lectures. Yeah, yeah, And then I also am doing, like, a hackathon this week, where I'm building, like, a model to create synthetic data, which is kind of tying into my second use case.  So I'm trying to do both of those on the same thing, if that's okay, or otherwise I will do a second, something different from my use case, from my second use case.  No, definitely, I think it should be fine.

24:54 - sanjeev kumar
  So are you following this use case, or you have your own? No, I'm following that one. following Oh,

25:00 - Elliot Eriksson
  So for the hackathon, I need to use a deep learning algorithm or a model to create it. So that's why I figured it would tie in quite well with the second use case.  But otherwise, I'll just create a different one. Okay, great, great.

25:15 - sanjeev kumar
  So the first one you are already done, right? Yeah, would say I've done a pretty decent project on that one.

25:23 - Elliot Eriksson
  Okay, great, great.

25:25 - sanjeev kumar
  Awesome. So it will be great, Elliot, if you could also add your code here, it will be nice for others to see and also for us to keep track of it, right?  Would you be comfortable to showcase that just to show us what you have done, how you have done? What did you learn?  Since you're using Databricks, a little bit of understanding, it could give us others too. Sure. Do you want me to do it now?  Not now. Just want to see if you want If have it ready, then if we find time, then we can do it because this probably will be the last comment session.  If you'd be nice to others. It's not that much to set up, just need to log in, I guess.

26:08 - Elliot Eriksson
  Okay, fine. Then great.

26:10 - sanjeev kumar
  So in the end, we will see if we can give you some time so that you can showcase a couple of things.  Sure. Okay. Thanks a lot for that, Elliot. Then, okay, so this was the web check-in. Did I miss anyone?  Okay, I guess no. Then there is another important topic that I want to discuss is this intern tech platform.  Right now, so what we did, we gave you an option to just choose a platform of your choice and get started, right?  But we need to make sure that we have a good coverage. So there are other good platforms also like DBT, Snowflake, AWS.  Right now, it is like Databricks and Azure heavy, right? It's very easy to start up with Databricks and Azure.  I understand that part, but we also need to start diversifying, right? So, uh, when, uh, so this is the plan.  So when we get into, when we go at the end of the, uh, the, um, sessions, right, we will, there will be customers reaching out of whichever.  So Raj will help with that, right? We will get interviews and there will be expectation that, uh, there's an expectation that a couple of customers would, uh, would need snowflake expertise, expertise, DBT expertise, Databricks expertise, a little bit of exposure on AWS.  It usually what happens is like, it's completely fine. If you know Databricks, you can easily scale up in the Snowflake, or if you know Snowflake or the distributor program, you can, you can probably easily scale up in Databricks, uh, with little bit of work, right?  But from now, uh, itself, it would be nice if we can start gaining that expertise. So based on your comfort, uh, SPGame  Would somebody also like to pick up one of these techs, especially DBT and Snowflare. Let's focus on only these two.  Can somebody keep doing what you're doing with Databricks and Azure and whatnot, but choose a second specialization so that we have a good mix of people across techs.
  ACTION ITEM: Explore DBT - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=1697.9999  What do you guys think? Yeah, I think somebody raised a hand.

28:28 - Filip Cedermark
  Yes, I think DBT would be pretty interesting to look into, personally, because I know one of my previous internships was pretty DBT-heavy, and I have some very basic knowledge about it, and I could definitely see myself looking into it a bit more.

28:47 - sanjeev kumar
  Great. So, Filip, I'll add you here. Is it fine if I attach you to DBT, right? Yes, that's fine.

29:01 - Filip Cedermark
  DBT. Yes.

29:04 - sanjeev kumar
  Yeah. Anybody else who would like to maybe experiment with DBT or Snowflake? So if you are like kind of comfortable with Databricks already, then I would recommend you choose another one.  Or even if you are not, spend your time in Databricks, learn it, but then build your capabilities in Snowflake too.
  ACTION ITEM: Explore Snowflake - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=1760.9999  Or if you want to just want to switch to Snowflake or DBT, that is also fine. I can switch to Snowflake.

29:39 - Elliot Eriksson
  Sorry? Who is that? I could switch to Snowflake. Okay. Great.

29:44 - sanjeev kumar
  Great. Yes. Seems like they have good machine learning stuff. Yeah. Snowflake. Shall I also keep Databricks or you would like to completely switch?  I can completely switch. It doesn't matter to me.

30:00 - Elliot Eriksson
  I didn't start out much in Databricks.

30:04 - Suhash Raja
  Then let's do that. Okay, nice.

30:06 - sanjeev kumar
  So we have coverage at least one there and one in DBT. Anybody else who would like to?

30:13 - Suhash Raja
  Sanjeev, we can upskill even at later point in time, right? Once we get comfortable with Databricks.

30:21 - sanjeev kumar
  Why I want to write it down here so that we have that sense like who is leading that part, right?  It's not like if Asindu did not volunteer, it doesn't mean that he will only do Databricks. You are free to do whatever you want.  Databricks is also a great platform, right? A lot of market coverage is there. So if you want to focus only on Databricks, do that.  But I wanted like a little bit of coverage there because yeah, yeah, we cannot expect everyone to to just learn one thing, right?  Okay, great. Later on. So you can you can volunteer as well. no problem. Thank you. Okay, so dbt for Filipa.  Okay, this was another important point. Then Deepika's demo. Shall we, so we have, we have probably three quick demos.  I guess Deepika, then we will go to Nicholas and then Elliot. I would probably go to, because we have been talking a lot of data engineering, but CI, CD, and ML, we have not talked much.  And Nicholas, if you are okay, let's start with Deepika, right? And then we will go to, Elliot, and then come to you.  Is that fine? Yeah, yeah, of course.

31:45 - Nikolaos Biniaris
  Okay, great. Deepika, would you like to share? Yeah.

32:00 - sanjeev kumar
  And one more thing, guys. See, I'm not telling you this, but this is well understood. I don't know whether I should even say that, but I always prefer that all of you keep your cameras on.  You don't have to do all the time because when you work in a corporate culture, you are expected to do that.  And you should build that comfort, right, that you should have a camera on, always be presentable in that fashion.  Not always, it's completely fine, but always make sure that whenever you do meet anyone, right, keep your cameras on, if possible, right?  Yeah. Go ahead, Deepika.

32:52 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Sure. Yeah. So, hi, Onik. We are going to see a small demo on how we are doing CACD with GitHub Actions.  So, before going with the demo, we will see some small understanding of what is CICD, Docker, and Kubernetes. So, I just prepared a small PPT for that.  So, what is CICD? So, the full form of CICD is continuous integration. And for CDI, it is either continuous deployment or continuous development.  So, what exactly CICD is? It is some set of practice or tools which is used for the software development process.  So, it exactly starts at the plan phase. After planning the coding happens, then we are building the code. Then all the test cases are being run.  And either it is released or published to any artifact or container registry. Then it is being deployed to any of the cloud provider or any of the servers.  Then it is being run. Then it is being monitored. So, this is one of the famous CICD loop diagram.  And this is one of the other diagram where we can just understand how the ternic build to artifact. is CICD.  things being, I'm, This step which we are like building the code and then moving to staging to production, it is like deployment.  So we won't be pushing the code directly to production, will be always in our testing in our non-fraud environment like dev, test, stage or unity, whatever it is.  Once all the testing is successful, then only it is being into production, then it is being monitored. So this is an overview of CACD.  So continuous integration, it automatically builds tests and integrates code change. And what is the difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment?  Continuous delivery is a manual process. There will be some approval required for the deployment in respect to continuous delivery.  Whereas in the case of continuous deployment, it is automatically deployed to the production without any approval. So that is the difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment.  Some teams prefer having their deployment to manual because they want to ensure that it has to be It has to be approved before moving to production.  that is the reason we have continuous delivery. Deepika, one quick question. So continuous delivery, manual deploy to production. Yeah, it means that manual approval is required for the production.  Okay, this is, but I got confused.

35:21 - sanjeev kumar
  manual deploy, or do you mean manual approval is controlled? is required before moving to production.

35:29 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Yeah, automatic deployment can be implemented till staging, but for production, it is always good to have a continuous delivery.  Yes. Okay. So could this be manual approval or manual deploy? I think I have to reframe the same sentence, I guess.  Because, yeah, this is a good information for me also.

35:54 - sanjeev kumar
  I know it with a different name, right?

35:57 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Usually it will be told as like continuous... Yes, we are going to see about GitHub Actions. So GitHub Actions is an inbuilt tool product by the GitHub itself.  So the pipeline is configured inside the folder called .github slash workflow. So this is how the typical GitHub Actions will be configured.  So it is like in YAML format. So how the pipeline will be configured? Like first, it will be checking out the code to the pipeline from the source code repository.  Then it will be installing the dependencies, whatever required with respect to like whatever the app we are deploying like Node.js or Java or Python.  So depending upon, based upon that, that respective dependencies will be deployed, sorry, are downloaded, uninstalled. Then the test cases will be run.  Then we are building the app using Docker or any other. So we are going to see a little bit about Docker and Kubernetes.  So Docker is called as containerization platform and Kubernetes is container orchestration platform. So what Docker does is like it converts the source code into a container along with that app code dependencies libraries.  So how it is being done is with the help of Dockerfile. Dockerfile has all those instructions like how the source code has to be built and has to be converted to a container.  So we will be calling that before container it is called as Docker image. So Docker image is nothing but it is being created with the help of Dockerfile with each layer.  I will show an example of how the Dockerfile is configured in my example. So what is the beauty of Docker?  Dockerfile like once it is being once it is built. We can try to deploy it in multiple environments. The same image can be deployed in multiple environments with the respective configuration of that environment.  And the beauty of Kubernetes is it has lots of features like it can automatically deploy, can scale up and scale down automatically, it can restart the port.  So it can do lots of things like when the application is using more microservices, then Kubernetes would be a go-to platform for that.  Since it is easy to manage and perform the deployment. So these are some of the terms used in Kubernetes like pods, servers, deployment, nodes.  So with respect to architecture level, Kubernetes have two nodes like masternode and workernode. So masternode handles the cluster and workernode handles the servers, pods, deployments.  So this is just a small one-liner for each one. So pod is the one that runs each country, know.  And services used for For hosting that app, then deployment is used to describe like how many number of pods I want, what is the memory limit I'm setting, or which image I want to deploy.  So all those configurations will be present in the deployment. And node is kind of like virtual machine where all the pods will be running over it.  And control plane is the one which will decide like how exactly the cluster has to be up and running and how the pod has to be assigned to the node.  So those kind of research will be taken by the control plane. So let's go to the demo part now.  This is one simple example where I have taken like Gothenburg weather as one of the examples. So I have created an app with...  So fast API based framework. So why fast API framework? Because it is a lightweight and easy to use framework.  That's why I used it. There are lots of frameworks available with Python, like Django, Flake, something like that. So in that, like I used fast API.  So, and for this, I used that open weather API. So I took the, this API for building that app.  So I created a secret after logging in. And then this is the github.workflow like I was telling in that PPT.  So this is how, this is where we will be configuring our pipeline. So I have some two YAMLs, CI and CD YAML.  Then in, in the app, I have the code, the main.py is the Python code that it has like, what exactly it has to do.  Like I'm capturing the three responses, like Weather, Wind, and Speed. And these are all the description. It will be sharing.  I will show the app, like how exactly it is, Then in respect to gates, like we are using some YAML files for deployment, servers, and this is the Docker file.  So I will just give you a high level overview of the Docker file. So all these steps are required to build the Docker image.  So we are starting always the Docker file starts with some from base image. So there are lots of base images available.  So here I'm using some Python lightweight image. So this from Python 3.11 Simpson. Then I'm setting up the work directory inside the container.  So which is like slash app. Then I'm copying the requirements from my source code to the container. So this is like source to destination.  Then I'm trying to install the dependencies, whatever required for this container. on MailGHAM社. Thank much. Through the help, through the requirements of .pxt file, it will install all the dependencies required.  So I have mentioned whatever the library is needed for my code here. Then I am copying the source code to the container as well.  Then I am exposing to the port 8080. Then it is being executed. So this is how the typical Docker file will look.  So based upon whatever application we are using, some steps will be needed. For example, the case of Node.js, will be using Node-based image.  Or if we are using Java, it will be like some JDK image. And if it is like, since it is Python, like I have pip installed.  If it is like Navin, if it is like Springboot, it will have some Navin-based build. Those kind of steps will be varying according to each application, whatever we are using.  So, and here we can see this. So I'm just clicking on it. So we can see whatever the pipeline run happens.  We can see whatever being run here. So this is how the pipeline will be occurring. Then since it is hosted already on GitHub, whenever we are making change to the repository, automatically the pipeline gets triggered.  So in order to do that, I will just do a dummy change here. So I'll just remove this line just to make the pipeline run.

43:47 - sanjeev kumar
  So whenever you do a code change and you commit, it automatically triggers this build, right? Yes. Awesome.

44:00 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  So this is how the build will get triggered. Now let me open my CIYAML and show how exactly the pipeline is configured.  So let's go to the CIYAML. Like we can see, I just named the pipeline as CICDKOTANBURPATARA. Then I'm adding my want condition.  Like this is what it triggers the build. Like whenever it has any changes pushed or any pull request merged, that's when like it will trigger the build.  So here since I'm using main branch, it triggers the build for main branch. For example, if I have some feature branch and I want to trigger only that build, then we can mention that branch name alone here.  So this is the condition required for that branch to get a pipeline to get triggered for the particular branch.  Then I'm setting some environmental variables here. So this image name, I will explain it later. So here I'm configuring two jobs like one for build and  and one for deployment. So once the like I'm configuring like now we are creating two workflows like for build push and here you can see run on like it is run on the github action based runner itself which I'm using like ubuntu latest one.  So there are lots of action runners available like windows based one or in like linux itself there will be some lots of varieties in that like I'm using ubuntu but depending upon the requirement you can change the runner here.  Then the first step will be always like checking out the source code check out the repository. So it check out the repository from source code then it is being pushed into our pipeline.  This is what the checkout task is used for. Then I am as in my application uses a python specific python version I have set up the python else what it will happen is it will download the latest version of python and it might not be like supported by the application.  So if you want like any preference. So Then we can set it up in our pipeline. This is a Python version set up this one.  So it will automatically install that particular Python version in the pipeline. Then we are installing the dependencies in the pipeline.  This step can be included. This is just some health check for the FAST API. Okay. Then before going to image check, I will explain the Docker steps.  So how the Docker is being built and pushed is first we will log into the Docker Hub. So like I hear in this example, like I'm using, I have already logged in with Docker Hub with my credentials, where we can see like whatever the containers I'm having, what are all the images I'm having.  So I have created a secrets from the settings, which I have configured in settings, then secrets. So So here I have referenced my dockerhub username and dockerhub token and this is set open with the API key which I have shown earlier.  So I have set up this key also here. So this is one good way to store all of our secrets in our repository.  So we are not directly hard coding it and we are storing it safely. So for example, if you try to view the dockerhub token, you won't be able to see anything.  Look here. You can just update only. This is one security feature. So whenever we are pushing anything to the source code, we have to avoid that and we have to use a secret feature.  And then we can reference like this like secrets.dockerhub username, secrets.dockerhub token. So by this way, we are providing some security for our credentials.  Then once docker login is successful, then docker build will happen. So this is the docker build. I am just using docker build minus t, image name I will explain.  Image name is nothing but our Kopenberg weather. And this is the version. Then once the docker build is done, then it is being pushed.  Some people will be using docker tag also to specify that particular set of version to be used. So typically it will be docker build, docker tag, and then docker push.  So it will be pushed to the docker half. So this is a typical CI workflow. So it starts with checkout, install in the dependencies, then login to docker, then it is being deployed.  With respect to the image version, like usually it will be generating some SHA version, which is quite unreadable for us.  Like we won't be able to read that image. So in order to make it easier in my last work, in my previous work experience, I use this image tag.  So how exactly that image tag will be created is, will be with today's date name, along with the pipeline.  Thanks. For example, like I will show the example present in the talker hub. So you can see usually if we don't mention any particular like image tag, it will be generating some SHA value, which is quite not readable, right?  But how I have configured this? I have configured like this. So this is the image which we built just two minutes back.  So you can see like 19, 4, 20, 26, this is today's date. And this six is the number of run that happened on that repository on the pipeline.  That's all with this tag. So by seeing the image name itself, you will understand to know when it was being built.  So that's why like I'm using this type of image tag. So depending upon some projects will have some naming convention like or some image convention like it has to be built like with this structure.  So accordingly, we can use that. So for that only like I have used this tag like this. This GitHub run number and this is the date and usually it will be like three numbers like 0.0.0 that's why like it starts with zero date and then GitHub number so this is how the typical docker image tag will be looking and then since I don't have any like Azure or AWO subscription I used to MiniQube for the deployment but there is a drawback with MiniQube like GitHub actually doesn't support MiniQube because it is only short lived and MiniQube is only for testing purpose those who want to start with Kubernetes they can use MiniQube for playing around it to understand about what is the cluster and how the deployment support services were configured so I will just run from my local and show how exactly the app is being how exactly the app looks so I just started the MiniQube so this is a command to start the MiniQube miniQube start so we have to install we have to download and install  So, I will show the docker images, whatever we are having. So, you can see, like, I have, like, 14.4, which is, like, four days ago.  Let's try to deploy today's build, whatever we have date. So, docker, docker pull. I will just take the repository name.  So, from the docker hub, I will take the latest version. So, which is 19.6, this one. So, you can see, we are pulling the image from docker hub to our local.  Now, let's give the docker images command. So, you can see, like, we have another repository with tag, with the latest tag.  Okay. So, now, let's try to deploy. So how we can do this like I'm just going to apply kubectl apply minus F and here in deployment.yaml I have we have to replace the image tag so it has the old one let's replace it with 19.6 here same kubectl apply minus F so it's been configured let's check our box so we can see the container creating so how the pod life cycle will be is like it will be first in pending state then container creating state then once it is successful it will run to the server deployment so now we can see it should be running down great so just for our understanding I'll just show describing the pod  So you can see like started container, created container, then it is successfully pulled the image from the docker hub, then it is being pulling the image, then it is being assigned to the node for the app to run.  Now, let me rank this miniq service, let's just copy the service name from it, which will be a service, now miniq service, so this will provide me the URL for my app.  So, this is how the application works. So, it is showing current weather, like what is the temperature, humidity, and wind, and it just shows the forecast of the next five days, like how it will be, and this will be updated every five minutes.  So, this is how a simple CI-CD workflow is configured and it is being deployed. But since I used Minikube, like I deployed it locally, but if we are using Azure, I have just given an example like here, like how we have to deploy it over Azure.  For example, we have to set the Azure credentials, we have to create service principle in Azure, we have to pass those credentials in secrets, then we have to share that what is the resource group and cluster name of that AKS, then we will be deploying it in the same way, either like we will be using the YAML to make it applied, or we will be using this command to update the image name and to deploy it.

55:02 - sanjeev kumar
  But that's it, Sanjeev. Great. Really loved it, Deepika. Yes, Sanjeev. There were a lot of things that I saw for the first time and it was a learning thing for me too.  I hope you others also will have a question, but I will start with one question. How much of this is replicable in MLOps?

55:27 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  With MLOps, I have limited experience only, Sanjeev. I haven't configured the pipelines directly for MLOps, so I'm not sure how I can relate it with MLOps.  Not a problem, yeah. Just wanted to check.

55:41 - sanjeev kumar
  But yeah, open to others. Do you have any questions for him? I had one.

55:50 - Elliot Eriksson
  I only played around with Docker very little, but when I did, we had to like stop the processes when we were like deploying a new...  Do you have to do that for kubernets or how is it or do you know if that's even a thing maybe we just did a wrong process please come again Elliot I didn't get your question completely like yeah when we wanted to push our code to our Azure web or virtual machine we had to like stop the processes they were already running and then start them again after they had a new code okay okay actually this docker hub when we are setting up in local only like we have to start and stop but kubernets it will be always up and running unless nothing is dropped the cluster manually in it okay yeah one thing sorry Elliot so your question is like when you did the deployment for a code change with a code change you deployed it for those changes to be picked up by a pipeline or your job or whatnot you had to restart that job this is what your question is right yeah exactly we had to restart like the process or like the part that the version machine was running  And we had to stop that and then restart it.

57:04 - sanjeev kumar
  Yeah, exactly. I let Deepika answer after me, but in my experience, that would still be the case, unless you have something called blue-green deployment.  So that's like more complex part. But yes, since your process is already running, it always makes a copy of whatever logic or code you have written into its driver or whichever process, which were a driver and a worker architecture you have, and then sends that code to workers to execute.  Right. If you deploy a code and don't restart the process, it just will not be picked up. Yeah. Right.  So that is still needed for the process. But Deepika, I would let you add because I face this issue.  So customers do ask us like, okay, it is not automatically picking the code because it will not. For that you need a special deployment called blue-green deployment, where you bring up  a next working pipeline, all together with the new code, make sure you have a proper handover and you bring down the old one gracefully, right?  So that you don't have any downtime. But yeah, I'll let Deepika add up. Actually, Kubernetes has that feature, Sanjeev.

58:20 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  It has that feature called rolling deployment. So it has some conditions like, unless and until the new pod is up and running, the old pod will be still handling the traffic.  So that the application won't go down. For example, we are configuring two pods for its deployment. So one pod will be being updated.  The other pod will be still receiving the traffic with that old configuration. So new pod is up and running, then the old pod will go down.  So that's how Kubernetes handles it. Okay, awesome. So even if we seeing our demo now, we can see like, when the container was getting created, the old pod was still up and running.  So So once it is running, only the old pod got deleted. One more thing, Deepika.

59:05 - sanjeev kumar
  So this pod is doing your CI-CD deployment or is it actually running your job? It is running our instance, our application.

59:15 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Oh, okay, okay, okay, yeah. Okay, great, great. Since it is with the same name, there is a combination, but there is a different name.  Okay, yeah, makes sense, makes sense.
  ACTION ITEM: Create PR w/ latest CI/CD demo changes - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=3572.9999

59:26 - sanjeev kumar
  Okay, this is great, yeah. Thanks a lot, Deepika. So now we are at 10. And yes, so this code is also available.  think, Deepika, you have already created a PR and it is merged in the report that we have, right? I made some more updates.
  ACTION ITEM: Delete and re-upload demo files in shared repo - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=3585.9999

59:44 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  I will create another PR to push the latest changes. Let me take the screen back.

59:49 - sanjeev kumar
  So if you want to take a look, Deepika has already done the first version check-in here. Okay. You are free to actually, what is this?  I'm toень with for Bye. Is this a zip file or something Deepika? I'm not able to open it. something is wrong Sanjeev.

1:00:07 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  I will just delete it and upload it again here. okay.

1:00:11 - sanjeev kumar
  So yeah, and you can also set it up in your local and play around yourself. So that would be good.  And thanks a lot Deepika. I know it went a bit longer, but I didn't want to stop because it was like really interesting.  So maybe Elliot, your part, we might have to like push for today. hope you don't mind, but thanks a lot.  Yeah. Another thing. So this meeting is one and half hours because like I mentioned last time in earlier, once like since we will do more of an interactive session where you present your work, right?  So that everyone can learn and I can give some feedback and whatnot. So we increase it to one and a half hours, like 30 more minutes.  Next 30 minutes. I would like to actually finish the common part today, right? So let's take those 30 minutes to do that.  We can close early if we finish early, right? Okay, now let's go to the sheet again. Okay, thanks a lot.  So this is done. Internship presentations. So from the past week, from the past session, we have some carryovers, which when you presented, I asked you to go and do a little bit of more deep research on that, right, and see exactly what exactly that is that you are referring to.  We will come to that later, if we have time, but let's jump into this. AI is not doing very good job.  Okay, I wanted it to go to the image. Okay, give me a second. Okay, I'll stop sharing. Give me a second, guys.  Okay. I'm just prepping a quick slide. I thought that, yeah, it will do a good job designing the slide for me, but it didn't.  So... Okay, nice. I think I am ready now. Okay. Let me share my screen again. Now let us talk about a Lakehouse platform, right?  Or an end-to-end platform that a customer will have. So this is an Azure example. Okay. So whenever you go to an interview or work in any part, right, DEE stream, data analysis stream, or ML stream, you will be definitely working in one of these blocks, right?  So let's discuss that block. And as an engineer working there, right, you should always have an idea which part you are fitting to and what are your upstream, what are your downstream, right?  So I think the more experienced ones will know. But yeah, so source, right, it always starts with source. So we will have like, I don't know, you can have, and this is based on Azure, something similar goes for AWS also in GCP2, right?  So you will always have sources from where you will connect and onboard the data. That's what data engineers would do for you, right?  So there could be various systems. There could be various systems like Synapse, Synapse, and SQL Server in Azure world, right?  I'm just focusing on Azure world at the moment. And these are like databases. How do you connect to them?  Using JDBC connections. So there will be connectors where you can fire queries and whatnot, right? You will have these kind of sources.  You could have some other RDBMS sources, right? Where you can have streams coming in, in form of CDC data, right?  Anything, any updates happens on that, that will be streamed out. There could be sensors and IoT data, very common for data engineers to work with, right?  I work with customers who have like wind farms, right? The big wind farms, right? You would know, and whatnot, right?  They work with these. There are manufacturing customers who have sensors and IoT data like Lego, and whatnot, right? So this is also very important.  Where they give you current machines, health, data, and they continually stream it to your data lake, right? And you also have these electric companies, electricity companies, but whenever a meter runs, how much you are consuming, temperature, and all of these can be streamed that you see in Tibur app or Watanfall app, right?  So this is also a case of IoT data, sensor data, right? Then, yeah, Electrolux, like fridge data, like how much it is heating and whatnot, that also can be streamed if you have given the concept, right?  Example of that. Then files, logs, semi-structured data. Like for example, you have, I don't know, cybersecurity case, like whoever is accessing, everything will be logged.  There could be XML generated, JSON generated, right? So a data to you could also be provided as simple flat files, text files, JSON file, XML files, right?  And every customer will have, I'm just taking. watching some For there are n number of examples for that. Like, for example, cybersecurity logs, right?  Audit logs. If you want to ingest them, do run some analytics on top of it, security analytics, then you will have this kind of data.  Media unstructured data. So usually, say, I don't know, Northvolt, right? And now the company is in trouble, but they have solid.  But anyway, the point was like I was working with them and then they were taking pictures of their machines on a regular basis and feeding it to their machine learning model to check whether there is a critical maintenance needed soon, right?  They were trying to predict it, right? Similarly, there could be videos recorded of something and then send as an unstructured data, media data to your models to derive some context out of it, right?  So these kind of use cases are also quite common, right? You will get to work with that. Then business apps, like for example, there are  Very structured datasets also that you would like Elliot, you will have to work with them. So usually ML, if you're working with ML, usually you don't deal with raw data, you deal with gold data, right?  Feature sets, or what do you call them? Feature stores, right? So you deal with the final layer of the data.  Data engineers bring the data and prepare that final layer for you. But after that, you do the modeling and whatnot, you create a models and then serve it to the endpoints.  Then other clouds, you could also have some data lying around there. There are a lot of customers who are multi cloud, right?  They use GCP and whatnot. When you have to like, they have certain section of the business or maybe they have acquired a business that is in another cloud, very common scenario.  You might also have to connect from one cloud, for example, from AWS, you need to bring data to Azure.  That is also very common scenario. And there are n number of You There is something called egress cost, then we have to take care of networking, private links, securely copying the data, right?  So this is all data engineering part, but you should understand, right, that these kind of scenarios would come different kind of sources, right?  Yeah, so this is on the source part, usually data engineers are involved here, ingest, right? So you will have data platform, so ingestion, transformation, query and process, right?  Then you serve and do the analysis on top of it. This is where DA data analysis persona fits pretty well, right?  Serving query processing, this is the part where ML engineer fits quite well. And then tilt transform or also the query process, right?  This also, sometimes data engineers do it. Till this part, data engineers, and so this is one of the common layers.  I think that data engineers and ML engineers serve. As a data engineer, I myself work on this part also.  I will talk about it. Like, for example, you have operational cases, right? You have to serve data to say, I don't know, apps like SQL DB for like fast operational accesses, fraud detection cases.  So there is, so from source to the lake is called ETL. And when you have very, very highly aggregated data that needs to be served to say, I don't know, Cosmos DB, fast lookup data, databases, right?  Then that is called reverse ETL. So you are taking that highly aggregated data back to another fast lookup databases so that your use cases like credit checks, say, whenever you tap a card, it needs to run a credit check on top of whether you should have pay now, sorry, buy now, pay later or not, right?  Or fraud detection, right? You are tapping your card in another country, whether it is So for those kinds of questions, there's also reverse detail where also data engineers are involved sometimes.  Anyway, now then comes the ingest part. Then like for example, there are two different kinds of streaming techniques we use, batch and streaming, depending on a customer's use case.  So whenever you go to an interview or whether you are already working for a customer, they might give you use cases.  They will, they would always have requirements like how fast I want data ingestion to be and why, right? So you always have to make a balance between cost and the need, right?  You can, everybody will say, I need the data as fast as possible. But then as the data engineer and as an, as an engineer in general, even ML guys, right?  You need to reason about why streaming is needed because you have to make your customers or your team, even if you work, work.  that's Not as a consultant, you work directly in a company, you have to question your teams, like, why do you need it?  There is a cost associated with it. We can bring data in milliseconds, but the cost will explode. Does the cost justify the target outcome, right?  So batch and streaming, when to do what, is like a very common topic that every interviewer will touch upon, just to see how do you reason about things, right?  So this is what I also look at when I'm interviewing. So I give them a scenario. I say, this is what I want, right?  I want data like in three seconds. My expectation is that candidates will reason about it. Like, why do you question me?  Why do you think as a customer, I'm your customer, you have to give me the right guidance. Why do you need it in three seconds?  What's your use case? Do you know the risk associated with that? I mean, the cost part, right? And then architectural complexity could come in.  A lot of issues could be there if you want the data very far. So customers might say, I want data every four hours.  I want data every day, right? 24 hours or something like that. Completely fine. That falls under batch cases. But streaming would be like, I want data in one second, two seconds, 10 seconds.  For fraud detection, I want it in 400 milliseconds or 200 milliseconds, right? So that's like ultra operational use cases.  So I work with all the customer, all different kinds of use cases and customers. You might not have like that many advanced customers to start with, but later in your career, you will have them for sure.  Okay. Batch and streaming. So these are the two ways to ingest. And what are the technologies? I am, I am trying to keep it technology.  This is like database specific. It was, I just remove all the database specific tools, but yeah, this is what overall it would look like in every cloud.  So now, since we're talking about Azure as a, as one of the hyperscalers, then you have. We batch and streaming tools like Azure IT Hub, Azure Data Factory, Azure Event Hub, even for streaming the data, Fabric Data Factory, whatnot.  Databricks has its own tools for this thing. Snowflake has its own tool for exactly doing the same thing. AWS, again, AWS has something called Kinesis.  In Databricks, you do it using Spark Structure Streaming, right? In Snowflake, you do it, I don't know, using Snowpipes or something, right?  So, yeah, every platform will have its own tools. Same distributed system behind the scene, mostly Spark will be there under the hood, but they will name it and package it and have it a little bit of variance between each other platforms, right?  Because Databricks provides itself like over VR open source and whatnot, Spark, Apache Spark, and very easily integratable. Snowflake has a different selling point that...  We are very efficient, low, low maintenance, easy access, and whatnot. So all of them offer the same services, but a little bit of flavor with a little bit of different flavors.  Then comes the transformation part. This is where you actually do the transformations, like moving data. Ingestion is like bronze that we talked about.  Just try to land it as quickly as possible. Transform is where you actually do the transformation. Like, for example, your ETL jobs, like, for example, silver data cleaning, and then data quality metrics, all these things would come under transform.  Then comes query and process. This is where you actually try to model your data, the final layer, which your apps or users will interact, right?  This layer will actually serve it, and to, to, to serve it to your external apps, right? Like, because whatever we are working on needs to serve somebody.  Right? Either it could be app or users or bots, agents, whatnot. Right? Now, till here, another important part. So when you do this, all of these steps needs to be orchestrated.  Which step will run when? Right? Dependency. Will my transformation start as soon as the ingest finishes? Now, when you're doing ingestion, you would be like ingesting data from these many sources.  And even from RDBMSS and there could be hundreds of tables or sources you are trying to bring in. Should my transform be dependent on one table or 10 tables or 20 tables?  How will you orchestrate the job? Right? That is also a very important point. Then, so dependency management is done by the orchestrate.  And this over archingly controls everything. When data will be ingested, when transformed, when processed into gold, and when the reverse ETL will trigger for the data to be sent out.  If that is needed, right? So yes, in Databricks, for example, there is a tool called Workflows. In Azure, we have something called Azure Data Factory.  Similarly, you have open source tools like Apache Airflow. It's a very famous tool. I really love that tool. Similarly, in AWS, you have Glue ETL that you can use for scheduling your jobs.  In Snowflake also, you will definitely have something, right? So orchestration. Then comes the data science and GenAI. In every customer's platform, you will find this section, right?  Because this is why we are bringing data in, right? Data engineers are serving data science and GenAI ML use cases, right?  And this is why the big data world was created. Because if you really want to do a good ML case, machine learning case, you cannot just train it in five months of data, six months of data or 10 GB.  20 GB of data for it to be better. It needs to be continuously trained on larger amount of data, right?  So yeah, you will always find this. Then, yeah, we already talked about processing ETL and real-time analytics. There will always be customers who want like real-time analytics.  Like for example, yeah, let's take an example of Northvolt, right? So they wanted real-time, near real-time. These are like very important terms.  Near real-time could mean five second 10 seconds, 13 seconds, 30 seconds or something like that, right? Real, real-time means like really operational, under a second, right?  So there could be cases for that. Fraud detections are like real-time cases. Image analysis, probably every minute they want a feedback.  How my, I don't know, Vestas, how my turbines are doing? How much is stress on my turbines, right? How much is torque on my turbines?  Is it leading to something critical maintenance window or not, right? I don't know. don't Those jargons, I'm just making things up.  But yeah, maybe every minute they want things to be analyzed, right? So that could, those kind of analytics or image could be sent and maybe log analytic data could be sent to us.  That we do. So this is all falls under this section. Then data warehousing. Now, when you make that data available, when data engineers work and make the data available, they make it available in form of table, structured data, right?  And you need to expose that data to your users, your users could, could, would like to probably interact with them and prototype something because as a data engineer, I'll leave my work at probably say silver, where I did the transformation and leave it, right?  Clean the data. Now, as a DA data analyst, I need to go analyze the data, run my queries, do some prototyping, check what kind of business cases or dashboard I need to create.  And then you, you, you. Your goal layer, aggregated layer, right? And then you need to do that. You need a warehouse, get a warehouse, right?  To access the data, right? So tables will be visible in a proper catalog format. You go and do a select star from this table, do the analysis, run ad hoc queries and whatnot.  So you will have a warehouse also in an architecture, right? Similarly, like nowadays, every platform has some kind of AI engine built inbuilt.  Like, for example, all these best tools in the market, like Databricks, Snowflake, they will pride themselves on saying like, okay, you don't have to maintain your data.  My engine is smart enough to identify, looking at a query profile, which table is being used by how many people, what kind of queries are being fired.  I will see what kind of keys are being used. I will automatically index them. I will cluster them, right?  All of this is happening behind the scene. Your AI model and AI engines are running. And looking at the patterns and trying to optimize it.  Right. So all everyone, all the platforms will talk about intelligence in general in some way or the other. Then one of the most important part is data and AI governance.  Any tool which doesn't has this is not production ready. What does it mean? The data that has arrived and all of you must know about it.  There is no escape. Doesn't matter you are data analyst or data engineer or ML engineer, right? You must know this.  So whenever data lands, data engineers will have access to bronze and silver, right? Data engineers are responsible to load it, but then somebody needs to access it.  Whether just imagine if I'm working for Klarna and then I have this PII data information, my card name, my social security ID, what is my credit check score?  These are like really PII data. Who? actually should have access to it. So you will have tools like catalogs, like in Databricks, you have Unity Catalog, in Snowflake, you have Horizon, you have OneLake in Azure, then you have Glue ETL or Athena in AWS, right?  They will try to manage the governance on the data, who has access to it, which group, why, row level security, column level security, right?  So we are not forming any specialized group for it, like we have DEML, but you are expected to know that.  Go prepared that in interview, they just expect that you will know this. At a basic level, you must know what does data and AI governance mean.  For Elliot, you need this AI governance part, because yeah, which models are being running, what kind of data they are accessing, are they even allowed?  I don't know. In EU, we have these AI laws and whatnot, are they conforming or not, right? So all all the-  AI models. What are they accessing? Everything needs to be governed and audited. Right? So this part is like very important to manage and govern your whole data landscape.  Again, repeating this part again, any platform that doesn't has a data and AI governance today, proper data, every platform will say we have it.  You have to go and check. There is something also called fine grained access controls. All the enterprise customers will ask for it.  Right? If you go learn the platform, which has this, if they don't have it in production, they will fail very badly.  Right? So learn the platforms, which actually are good at it. Right? This is my experience. I'm telling you from my experience.  Then at the lowest level is the data layer. This is what we do. So once batch streaming is done, we land them in bronze, silver, gold.  We will discuss more about it. Right? So these are like different stage of the data. And then, yeah, it just then comes, then there is another part of collaboration.  What does it mean? Now, I work with customers who have their own customers, right? They might say, for example, do you know this company called Shipstead?  It's a Swedish company, right? Maybe I'm pronouncing it wrong. It's spread from a huge media company or something like that.  I was working with them. What they wanted? Maybe I'm messing a few things up, but please forgive me for that.  You will have customers who will have their own customers with whom they want to share data with. They want to collaborate with, right?  Then you need a collaboration mechanism. So for example, a third party vendor wants to access your data. Maybe they want to sell your data for some reason, right?  You have given a concept and then they're allowed to sell it. How they can share this data to a third party and maybe charge for it, right?  So this is a lot of customers will have this business data, like Shipstead probably it was, it had some  Some dataset that they actually sell, right? They are allowed to sell. So you will also have collaboration where multiple vendors can work on the same copy of data, and there are various segments to do it.  In Databricks, you have something called DeltaShare or Marketplace, and Snowflake also have something called Marketplace, right? And yeah, all the tools will happen.  And then the final storage layer where actually data resides, so ADLS, S3, Google Store, right? GCS. Yeah. Okay. Then you have the serving part.  Now, this is serving analysis. So this is an important part. It's becoming more and more important with agentic AIs and all these agents that we are working with, right?  Here, what happens, there are two kinds of cases. One, there could be a dashboard, right? A user is, because yeah, all of us, myself, data engineer, a DA, DA, and...  ... These are working to serve end user, right? And this is where the end user sit. They don't give a damn about what is happening here.  So all those C-levels, P-levels, whatever, right? They look at this and they just expect all this thing to happen magically.  They will not care about it. So, it is very important that when the data moves from left to right, it's like filtered, purified, and usable, right?  There will be users who will be accessing the same data through dashboards, right? Like, for example, Power BI, Tableau, and whatnot.  There could also be apps, like, for example, Kone. Kone has this maintenance app, like, whenever they go and find a problem in an elevator, they go and fix it.  As soon as they fix it, they do some testing, and the data should come to my leg, clean, check against the sensors, IoT data, and see whether it actually...  Fix the elevator or not. And that has to happen within a minute, right? Because you cannot just have that maintenance guy sitting there for two hours, right?  It's cost for the company, right? So yeah, they will have access to the apps where data is streamed in real time or maybe even in real time.  Then you will have, we talked about operational cases like highly sensitive banking companies like where you have this AML, anti-money laundering use cases, fraud detection cases.  Then these credit checks. So right for there, need very low latency. So if data is available here and within 50 milliseconds, I need to have a response so that I can make a decision whether I should block a card or not, right?  So those use cases will be solved by operational databases. Like in Databricks, you have something called LakeBase, Postgres, Managed Postgres.  Snowflake also has it. All these platforms. If we have some other thing, right? Yeah. And this is where reverse ETL comes into the picture.  We can talk about this like more advanced topic, but yeah, just for information, you will have such cases when they say, I have this, I have this credit check case.  Could you tell me I have an operational case where I need data to be solved in a hundred milliseconds.  Could you suggest me something? You should be able to talk about these things. Oh yeah. You might need an operational DP store, right?  You might need to set up reverse ETL, right? So that's why it is important to know if it's fine that you have not worked on it.  You cannot work on everything. Even for us, right? Whenever we recruit, it's completely fine if you don't know something, but if you have good idea about it, how it works, it's just about giving you an opportunity, right?  You, you will be able to scale up on that. So having a good idea is very important. You must know all these layers, minimum, basic minimum requirement, right?  Okay, and then we already talked about third party where... And you might have to like, usually we used to do it in, like, you know, we used to set up this SFTP servers, where we will transfer files to them, then they will use it and access it.  Now, but that's a data copy, right? So now the technology is changing, people want less data copies to save cost.  So latest technology like database data sharing, they don't make copy of the data, but still are able to share it, right?  So yeah, so this is the analysis layer, and then, yeah, then there is this platform specific thing like Entra ID, then you will have referential catalogs, because, say, in Azure, you could, you could have a database deployment, you could also have a Snowflake deployment, right?  Now, both of them have, will have their own governance model. In database, you have Unity Catalog, and Horizon, you have, sorry, in Snowflake, you have Horizon.  Now, you cannot just start defining, okay, Sanjeev have. Has access to this particular table, and again, go and duplicate things there.  So there is something called referential catalog like Immuta or Purview. They will handle, they will integrate with multiple platform on their catalogs and handle it on a very high level.  Right. So, yeah, these are all the technical, more details, but yeah, we will go over them. But there are also now AI services which are coming up that we need to cater to.  Right. Yeah. So this was the brief summary of what exactly the architecture or tools and technologies or sections you will see in a customer's platform.  Any comments, any feedback? Does it make sense? Anything to add?

1:30:50 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Sanjeev, here, like, DevOps task means, like, which, which are the pieces where DevOps engineer can work on this platform, Sanjeev?  All the parts. Yes. Yeah. you. Okay. DevOps is everywhere, right?

1:31:03 - sanjeev kumar
  So see, if you want to make it production grade, you need a good data and governance and you need CICD, right?  So engineer will deploy, develop it and whatnot, right? But everything has to be done. Whatever code maintenance reusability is done, it is done through CICD.  When it comes to MLOps, there also MLOps is needed, right? You need DevOps properly, but in a MLOps way, right?  So DevOps covered, covers everything, the whole life cycle of code management, infrastructure deployment, right? The whole thing when it is being deployed, like enter ID provider, I have to add and whatnot, users, blah, blah, right?  Everything needs DevOps. Okay.

1:31:44 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  And with respect to governance, but since we are in Europe, we need to follow the GDPR compliance as well, right?  Or is it not required in this case? No, no, we need that. But that is more of a use case.  This is data governance. Who has access to my data right now? GDPR is a concept. exactly.

1:32:04 - sanjeev kumar
  That's also very important. But that is different in my case, in my understanding. We will talk about GDPR later on.  Governance of the current data at rest. Now data is there. Who has access to it?

1:32:20 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Why they have it?

1:32:21 - sanjeev kumar
  I have a PIA data already. How do you secure it? Right? Maybe it is a little bit related to GDPR too, but they can also have some engineering aspect, right, be forgotten and whatnot, right?  Mm-hmm. Yeah. But yeah, not fully, in my mind, not exactly governance, but yeah, some aspect could be considered here.  Okay. Thank you. Okay. Guys, I think we are already, we have time. So if you don't have any other questions, we can probably close for today.
  ACTION ITEM: Share next week's plan (split sessions) w/ group - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/yyFebsm-YstTG4NXbNX8ju2ovxNGQu4Z?timestamp=5581.9999

1:33:04 - Suhash Raja
  Yeah, and there was some other topic that we could not discuss.

1:33:08 - sanjeev kumar
  We will talk about it. Let's see how we can cover it in further sessions. And for next week, I will let you know the plan.  I will let you know the plan because we probably will think about splitting it so that Elliot will have his own stream now so that, yeah, he doesn't have to listen too much of Data Engineering.  Okay, guys, then see you next week.

1:33:37 - Suhash Raja
  See you. Bye-bye.

1:33:40 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Bye. Bye-bye.

1:33:41 - Neha Doda
  Thank you.